So this is cool.
Now we have a bit of JavaScript that
we can execute directly from here.
So now we can start using all of
the power of visual studio code here,
but this is how you include JavaScript
into your HTML and CSS project.
You might ask me, why doesn't this go
on the head or why is this where it is?
Right, whereas like something like
your CSS, right, would go here.
Right, if we had a stylesheet,
if you wanted one there.
So this goes in the head because
before people see your content,
you don't want them to see
unstyled HTML and then for
it to flash, and
then it turned into styled code, right?
It's called a FOUC,
flash of unstyled content, FOUC, yeah,
flash of unstyled content.
You don't want that, right,
because it's annoying to people, right?
Imagine if you went to netflix.com,
everything was black and white and
all sudden all of the images and fonts and
all that stuff showed up immediately.
It's startling to people.
They don't expect that.
That's why you load your CSS first here in
the head before it loads anything else.
Then you wanna load all of your HTML so
people can see things.
And then the last thing that you load is
the JavaScript, because you want people to
see things while they're making
a decision about what to do,
you wanna load the JavaScript
in the background.
That's kind of the process, right?
This is a game of psychology of making
people think that your website is fast.
Because typically it takes people,
I don't know,
hundreds of milliseconds if not
seconds to see your website, read it,
understand it, and make a decision
of what they wanna do next.
So in the time that it takes for someone
to do that, you can load your JavaScript
in the background, so
everything becomes interactive.
So that's why we love
JavaScript at the end.
Cuz your browser when it gets this HTML
document, it just reads it line by line.
and it just executes things line by line.
So once it hits this linkstyle.css,
it actually pauses loading your HTML,
downloads all of your style sheets,
applies those, and then keeps going.
Then when it hits this script tag,
it's going to stop,
download your script tag, execute all
that JavaScript, and then keep going.
So it doesn't literally line by line.
Any questions about that?
Sometimes people find that confusing
of why you do it in certain order,
that's why.
Someone might ask me if, well, sometimes
you do put it in the head, sometimes.
So for example, Google Analytics wants
to be loaded in the head, right,
because it wants to run off, your person
got visited and they hit these pages,
right, you can have like analytics of
how people are using your website.
Sometimes they want you to put them in the
head, I still don't listen to them cuz I
want my website to load fast, and
if I lose some analytics, so be it.
But that's a personal preference.
I always try to do what's best for
the user.
Yeah, let's go ahead and
put our equation in here just for funsies,
such as you can just copy this code
here that we wrote and paste that
into our experiments, and get rid of
our link there cuz we have no style.
Now, what do we expect
when we refresh the page?
What is it going to log out,
if we go back to our page and refresh it?
>> That number whatever
the something times 12 is.
>> That's absolutely correct.
So it's going to be the 6000, right?
The yearly rent in our particular case.
That's a really useful exercise
to do every time that you go and
refresh the page,
is what do I expect to happen?
So that one, you're kind of thinking
through everything that you just did.
And then see if it matches
your expectations, but
kind of like running
the code in your head.
I found that to be a really
useful exercise for myself.
By the way, so
if I go here and change this,
or let's say if changes need to be 600.
First if I wanna see it reflected in the
browser, if one, I have to once save it.
So I hit command S here.
You can see every time that I change
something here in VS code, it's a circle,
when it's unsaved.
And then if I hit command S, or you can
just say File Save up here as well.
I'm very lazy, so I just do Command S, or
I'm pretty sure it's ctrl S,
right, in Windows.
Then I have to come over here,
notice this is still 6000.
I have to refresh the page, which you
can do by this little arrow here.
Or command R in Mac or
I believe it's just F5 in Windows.
Also I think F5 works in Mac,
surprisingly enough.
Yeah, it does.
So you can you can use F5 in both, but
Command R is more what
most people use in Mac.
I had to learn so
many shortcuts in both Windows and
Mac, one, cuz I used to work in
Microsoft and I had to do it on Windows,
but to teaching all these classes people
wanna know the shortcuts in both of them.
Okay, so that's why sometimes
people don't see this reflected,
they expect it to change right away but
you have to refresh the page.
Okay.
So congrats,
you just wrote your first code.
I didn't have you write hello world.
Typically people write hello world for
their first application.
If you wanna write it, it's just
console.log, Hello world, like that.
Why hello world?
It's just like it's a meme at this point
I suppose for computer scientists that,
it's the most basic program that one
can write is hello world, right?
So now if I say this and
refresh this over here,
what would you expect
to see an X down here?
We're gonna see both, right,
cuz I didn't take this one out.
So if I refresh I see 72 under first and
then I see hello world.
Nice sort of feature though is I can
click here on experiments.js, so
this is experiment.js line 4,
I think column 9.
If I click on that, it'll actually
take me to where it came from and
a bunch of other stuff.
You actually,
I think you have to give this permissions
to access your local file system.
But this can be really helpful
if you're wondering like,
where did this come from, right?
Well, now I know I can go
look at experiments.js and
I can go look at line 7, right?
That's correct,
line 7 is where that came from.
And then technically this is column nine.
Yeah, you can see there,
line seven dot column nine.
So this is the function that I called,
which is where the nine comes from.